Around the 21st day, this is an embryo seen from the front, here, like
this, it's there, with my surface ectoblast here,
my surface ectoblast,
we see my neural tube inside, the neuropore, the cephalic groove
is not closed,
and we see what is called the first optical anlage appearing.
And why does it appear? Who can explain it to me now?
Expansion by support points outwards.
Do you remember the main types of communication we have?
First communication, autocrine. I inform myself directly.
Second type of communication, I inform my neighbor by direct contact.
We are attached to each other, we give each other information of the crine type, that is, liquid.
Third type of communication, telocrine.
At a distance, endocrine.
Neurocrine, it's telecrine. Neurocrine, it's paracrine, in
quotes, since it's an axon that comes here.
And then there's another one you don't know, it's called juxtacrine communication.
It's that not only is there this information from the ectoblast linked to the
genetic, sonetic, HH phenomenon,
inhibited at the tip of the precordal plate, which means there will be a lateral expansion by
all the phenomena.
that will express themselves and will actually form this.
It comes out, here.
And we see here that this information from the primary optic vesicle,
which is here, you see, here,
you see me like that at the very beginning, you see,
and we see these two lateral vesicles appearing, which begin to express themselves,
which are pushing, okay?
two lateral vesicles come and come to what is called the part of
the epiblast
surface. And here, there will be a reaction, what is called a metabolic
metabolic reaction,
juxtacrine, which will create a swelling and it will, by
reaction of
the primitive vesicle on the internal lateral part
of my epiblast, there will be a
reaction and that it will form, it will
engender what is called the primitive optic placode at the
beginning I have an epiblastic tissue
that appears when the seventh eighth day it is there it is the evolution
of this thing at the beginning it
will form a plate a neural plate ok because of my notochord which is there will change
shape
to form a groove then this groove comes to meet
To form a tube.
And then this part will disappear.
There will just be here what is called the neural crest.
And that, that will form what is called the surface epiblastic tissue.
And so that, that is internal epiblastic tissue.
So the fluid that is here above, it's the same fluid that is here inside.
Okay?
What fluid is it?
Amniotic.
which will then become, change its name, CSF.
You see that? That's the neural tube, that's it.
And here above, that's what's there, it's the surface epiblast.
It will have these small vesicles that come laterally to swell,
swell, swell, swell here.
And then there will be a molecular contact,
which is called a juxtacrine contact,
which will change the pupillary tissue.
which will swell and form what is called the optic placode.
And we see that this optic placode, here, by juxtacrine communication,
becomes a fulcrum.
Because what do we feel when we look at this drawing?
You have the impression that it's sinking in.
Okay?
In fact, it didn't sink in.
What happened then?
It's the outside that's growing.
There is communication and so it becomes a point of support.
And so I have an important meeting here.
Between the two, we don't see it here, but there is a cleft called the colobomic cleft.
In which an artery will run, we will see that, the hyaloid artery.